# Syllabus (03/25/2019 - 06/03/2019)

* Class Hours: Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm
* First Day: Monday, March 25, 2019
* Last Day: Monday, June 3rd, 2019
* Class will NOT meet on Monday, May 3rd.
 
 ## Expectations
* Class starts promptly at 9am, you are expected to have your systems booted up and to be ready to go by 9am. 
* Please avoid cell phone use during lecture; we reserve the right to ban cell phone usage during class.
* Tentative break schedule; we will take an hour for lunch around noon, ~10 minutes around 10:30am and ~15 minutes around 3pm. Unless we are in lab at which point you may break as needed.
* Class is scheduled until 5pm; we do make an attempt to wrap early but there are no guarentees.
 
 ## Contact
* Join the [Slack Channel](https://join.slack.com/t/stack-x/shared_invite/enQtMzk3OTg3NzAzODc5LTA2NzA4M2FmZmFhN2EzMjhhNjhlOTE3ODVmODMyMTAwZWQ2MTRlNmU3MTYyM2Y4OTI2ODYwMjRiZTkyZjdkMGM)
* Email bootcamp@microtrain.net

## Courseware
The [courseware](https://github.com/microtrain/bootcamp) is avaiable on GitHub.
* https://github.com/microtrain/bootcamp
* Additional materials and career coaching are available via [Professional.Me](https://theprofessional.me/)

## Description 
The class is 40 hours a week for 10 weeks. It is comprised of a series of units with each unit corrosponding to a chapter in the courseware. A unit or chapter is compirsed of working lectures, exercises, labs and additional resources. The goal of this class is to provide a working knowledge of web and mobile application development. This course is not a deep dive on any one topic, rather it is intended to provide a working foundation that will allow you to hit the ground running and give you the knowledge base upon which to build a career. In most cases you will get a light introduction to a topic; typically with in a specific context. We will build on these topics as we progress through the course. The syllabus is tentative and may be adjusted to the pace of the class as a whole. The last two to three weeks of class are open and are intended for to allow each stundet to complete a single or multiple projects to add to their portfolio.

### Keys to Success

* Read ahead in the syllabus.
* Study/code outside of class (6-9 hours a week depending on experience).
  * Follow the links under "Additional Resources"
  * Write code outside of the classroom assigenments.
  * Google any topics that are not quite clear.
  * Read through the comments in StackOverflow questions.
* Complete all labs and in-class assignments everything builds on the previous lessons.

## Unit Composition

### A Lecture
An overview of the topic(s) at hand.

### Exercises
Guided application of the topic(s) at hand.

### Coding Challenges
Planned and impromptu inclass assignments that will present new and old concepts as challenges to be solved in code.

### Labs
The work you are expected to do on your own. Lectures and and exercises should take roughly 40% - 50% of the class time with the rest of the time being spent in labs. If you get ahead it is expected tha

### Additional Resources
This section provides links to additional reading, conversation, ebooks, videos online courses ect. While not required it is encouraged and expected that you will spend some time reviewing this material.

#### Udemy
We use Udemy as supplemental material, while it is not required you are encouraged to utilize this tool. You will have access to Udemy until at least the end of your program so even after this course is finished you can continue to learn in a structured environment.

#### Khan Academy
This provides free online learning for various topics. This is mostly included as a review of Algebra, Geometry, etc. We do not get to heavy with these topics but any one wanting a review can do so through the links provided.

## TENTATIVE SCHEDULE

### Week 1 (Dev, Bash, HTML, CSS)

#### Build and Understand a Development Environment ~1 Day
* Install Ubuntu Linux
* Linux basics
* Install dev tools
* Install the LAMP stack
* Configure the Apache Web Server
* NPM
* Git

#### Programming Basics  ~1 day
* Shell Scripting with Bash

#### Introduction to Web  ~3 days
* The Anatomy of a URL
* HTML
 * Intorduction to HTML
 * GitHub Pages (Basic Website)
 * Web Forms
 * HTML Resume
* CSS/Preprocessors
  * CSS and Basic Styles 
  * SASS/SCSS and Gulp Processes
  * CSS Layouts (floating grids, CSS grids, flexbox) 
  * Responsive CSS

### Weeks 2-3 (Server Scripting, PHP, JavaScript)

### JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and Bootstrap ~5-7 days
* Programming Basics with JavaScript
* Walking the DOM
* Catch Events
* Progamming the Canvas
* jQuery Basics
* Ajax
* Introduction to Bootstrap

#### Server Scripiting with PHP ~1-3 days
* Introduction to Templates
 * Build a template in PHP
 * PHP Web Site
 * Form Processing in PHP 

### Weeks 3-4 (SQL, NoSQL, Web Frameworks)

#### MySQL and CakePHP ~3 days
* MySQL
* CakePHP
* Unit Testing
* Automated Code Review with Code Climate.

#### MongoDB, Express ~5 days
* MongoDB
* Express
* REST API
* Web Sockets

#### Introduction to the Cloud 1-2 days
* Launch a production site to Digital Ocean on your preferred tech stack (MEAN or LAMP).

**Output**
Your personal production site on Digital Ocean on your preferred tech stack (MEAN or LAMP).

### Week 5 (Angular)

#### Angular ~5 days
* Tour of Heroes Tutorial
* Interact with your REST API

### Week 6-7 (Hybrid Mobile)

#### Apache Cordova and Ionic ~10 days
* Learn how to build mobile device emulators.
* Learn how to emulate mobile devices using the Chrome browser and Dev Tools.
* Run exisiting web code as a mobile app
* Ionic Applications

### Weeks 8-10
If applicable week 8 may serve as catch up, review or overflow time for any topics of which there are issues.

####  Projects
Whatever you want to build. Start thinking of a project sooner than later

## Additional Policies

### Reimbursement Policy
Students may be reimbursed up to $20 for one domain name.

### Retake Policy
Students may at MicroTrain's discretion retake the class provided space is available. No new equipment, materials, or reimbursements are provided for anyone retaking the class.


